# AutoML

This tool can be used to autogenerate ML functions from polymorphic type annotations. Simply write down the type of the 
polymorphic function you want, and this tool will write it for you!

## Syntax

AutoML types are declared in comments with (!) immediately inside the comment character. The types may use the following grammar:

```
typ := identifier | typ -> typ | typ * typ | typ + typ | unit | void
identifier := '[a-Z][a-Z]*
```

-> and * correspond to the type constructors as they are in Standard ML. 'a + 'b corresponds to the type ('a, 'b) either. 
unit corresponds to the unit type in Standard ML. void corresponds to the empty datatype declared as 
```
datatype bottom = Bottom of bottom
```
and corresponds to false/bottom (⊥) in logic. 

## Mechanics

Type annotations are parsed using the Haskell Parsec library. Code is generated using a G4ip theorem prover implemented in 
Standard ML (code is not given here, since it was a homework assignment in CMU's 15-317: Constructive Logic class). 

Since the functions fst and snd, and the datatype bottom do not exist in Standard ML, AutoML injects a Utils structure into 
the code it generates to create these functions. 

Code generated by AutoML can be found in the autogen-ml directory created by the tool. It's reasonably clean and readable.

~~The script itself definitely doesn't work by calling a Python script from a Bash script, then calling a Haskell script from the Python script and piping the output of that into an SML REPL with a heap image loaded, then parsing the output of that and writing that to a new file, the path for which is then printed by the Python script and piped into the arguments to a new SML/NJ process. That would be silly.~~

## Example
The following is a valid type annotation:

```
(*! duplicate : 'a -> 'a * 'a !*)
```

AutoML then generates the corresponding function:

```
(*! duplicate : 'a -> 'a * 'a !*)
val duplicate = fn x1 => (x1, x1)
```

## Installing and Running
1. Clone this repo.
2. Install depdendencies. This tool requires Python 2, SML/NJ, and rlwrap be installed and be callable using the python, sml, and rlwrap commands respectively. If you'd like to use something different, you can change what is called in ./automl. It's just a sad hacky bash script :). Additionally, there's a compiled heap image for x86 Linux. If you need one for a different OS, I'd be happy to make one. This isn't a professional tool, it's just something I made for a course I'm teaching, so it's quite flimsy. 
3. Create a file containing AutoML type annotations, examples of which can be found in the examples/ directory.
4. Run AutoML:
```
./automl <sml file>
```
